.TH HOSTMAN-CONFIG 5 "May 2026" "hostman 1.2.5" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
hostman-config \- hostman configuration file format
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hostman
uses a JSON configuration file at
.I ~/.config/hostman/config.json
to store global settings and host definitions.
.P
The file is automatically created on first run via the interactive setup wizard.
.SH FILE LOCATION
.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/hostman/config.json
(default: ~/.config/hostman/config.json)
.SH FORMAT
The configuration file is a JSON object with the following structure:
.P
.RS
.nf
{
    "version": 1,
    "default_host": "myhost",
    "log_level": "INFO",
    "log_file": "/path/to/log",
    "copy_to_clipboard": true,
    "hosts": {
        "myhost": {
            "api_endpoint": "https://example.com/api/upload",
            "auth_type": "header",
            "api_key_name": "Authorization",
            "api_key_encrypted": "...",
            "request_body_format": "multipart",
            "file_form_field": "file",
            "static_form_fields": {
                "folder": "hostman"
            },
            "response_url_json_path": "url",
            "response_deletion_url_json_path": "deletionUrl"
        }
    }
}
.RE
.SH GLOBAL KEYS
.TP
.B version
Integer. Config schema version (currently 1). Must be positive.
.TP
.B default_host
String. Name of the default host used when \-\-host is not specified.
Must reference an existing host entry.
.TP
.B log_level
String. One of DEBUG, INFO, WARN, or ERROR.
.TP
.B log_file
String. Path to the log file. If empty or absent, logging is disabled.
.TP
.B copy_to_clipboard
Boolean. Whether to automatically copy uploaded URLs to the clipboard.
.TP
.B hosts
Object. Maps host names to host configuration objects (see below).
.SH HOST KEYS
Each host entry may contain:
.TP
.B api_endpoint
String (required). The full URL of the upload API endpoint.
.TP
.B auth_type
String (required). Authentication method: "header", "basic", "none", etc.
.TP
.B api_key_name
String. The header or field name used to pass the API key.
.TP
.B api_key_encrypted
String. The encrypted API key. Set via the interactive add-host prompt;
not exposed through the config get/set CLI.
.TP
.B request_body_format
String (required). "multipart" for multipart/form-data or "json" for
application/json.
.TP
.B file_form_field
String (required). The form field name used for the file upload.
.TP
.B static_form_fields
Object. Additional key-value pairs sent with every upload request.
.TP
.B response_url_json_path
String (required). JSONPath expression to extract the upload URL from
the response. Supports dot notation (e.g. "data.url"), array indexing
(e.g. "files[0].url"), and "raw"/"text" to use the full response body.
.TP
.B response_deletion_url_json_path
String. JSONPath expression to extract the deletion URL from the
response. Leave absent or empty if the host does not support deletion.
.SH DATABASE
Upload history is stored in a SQLite database at:
.P
.RS
.I ~/.cache/hostman/hostman.db
.RE
.P
This file is managed automatically and should not be edited manually.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hostman (1)
.SH LICENSE
MIT License.
