.TH HOSTMAN 1 "May 2026" "hostman 1.2.5" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
hostman \- command line image host manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hostman
.RI [ global-options ]
.I command
.RI [ command-options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hostman
uploads files to configured hosting providers, manages host definitions,
stores upload history, and supports deleting uploads when a deletion URL is available.
.P
Global options (--quiet, --json, --verbose, --no-color) can be placed before or
after the command, not just at the start.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show help output.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version information.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Reduce output (only errors and warnings).
.TP
.B \-\-json
Emit machine-readable JSON output when supported.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Enable more detailed output.
.TP
.B \-\-no-color
Disable ANSI color output.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B upload
Upload one or more files.
.RS
.P
.B Usage:
hostman upload [options] <file_path> [file_path...]
.br
hostman upload [options] \-\-directory <path>
.br
hostman upload [options] (reads file paths from stdin if no args)
.P
.B Options:
.RS
.TP
\-\-host <name>
Host to use (default: configured default host).
.TP
\-\-directory, \-d <path>
Upload all files from a directory.
.TP
\-\-continue-on-error, \-c
Continue batch upload if a file fails.
.TP
\-\-throttle, \-t <ms>
Delay between uploads in milliseconds (avoids rate limits).
.TP
\-\-no-clipboard, \-n
Do not copy URL(s) to clipboard.
.TP
\-\-insecure, \-k
Skip TLS certificate verification (use with self-signed certs).
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B list-uploads
List upload history with optional filtering and pagination.
.RS
.P
.B Options:
.TP
\-\-host <name>
Filter uploads by host.
.TP
\-\-page <number>
Page number for pagination (default: 1).
.TP
\-\-limit <count>
Records per page (default: 20).
.RE
.TP
.B delete-upload <id>
Delete a local upload history entry.
.TP
.B delete-file <id>
Delete the remote file using the stored deletion URL.
.TP
.B list-hosts
List configured hosts.
.TP
.B add-host
Add a host interactively.
.TP
.B list-presets
List built-in host presets.
.TP
.B add-preset <preset_name>
Add a host from a built-in preset (e.g. imgbb, imgur, 0x0.st).
.TP
.B import-host <sxcu_file>
Import a host from a ShareX SXCU file.
.TP
.B remove-host <name>
Remove a configured host.
.TP
.B set-default-host <name>
Set the default host for uploads.
.TP
.B config
Manage configuration.
.RS
.P
.B Usage:
hostman config
.br
hostman config get <key>
.br
hostman config set <key> <value>
.P
.B Config keys:
.RS
.TP
log_level
Log level: DEBUG, INFO, WARN, or ERROR.
.TP
log_file
Path to log file.
.TP
copy_to_clipboard
true or false.
.TP
default_host
Default host for uploads.
.TP
hosts.<name>.<property>
Host-specific settings (api_endpoint, auth_type, etc.).
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B help [command]
Show built-in CLI help for a specific command.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/hostman/config.json
Main configuration file (see hostman-config(5) for details).
.TP
.I ~/.cache/hostman/hostman.db
SQLite upload history database.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
hostman upload image.png
.TP
hostman upload file1.png file2.jpg \-\-throttle 1000
.TP
hostman upload \-\-directory ./screenshots \-\-continue-on-error
.TP
hostman add-preset imgbb
.TP
hostman list-uploads \-\-page 2 \-\-limit 10
.TP
hostman config set log_level DEBUG
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 on success, non-zero on failure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hostman-config (5)
.SH LICENSE
MIT License.
